All right.
So on the left hand side of this code, I have opened the job filter sidebar component.
And as a reminder, this is the component where we are rendering our job filter, sidebar, job types
component and our job filter, sidebar organization's component.
And my hope is that I will be able to replace these two component instantiation right here with instantiation
of my new checkbox group, Reusable Component.
My hope is that by using this component twice and simply providing it different prop values for header
unique values and mutation, I'm going to get the usage or functionality of these former two components
while only relying on one total component.
And that's going to of course remove the duplication from these two and consolidate all of that business
logic in a single reusable component, the one we have on the right.
All right.
So let's tackle this process step by step.
In order to add this component, I'm going to, of course, need to first import it and register as
a local component.
So right here, I'm going to import my new.
Job filters, sidebar, checkbox, group component, and that's going to come from these source directory
components, job results, job filter, sidebar and finally, job filter, sidebar, checkbox group.
So there is the fully imported component from the path.
And before I forget, make sure to register it as part of the local components object right here checkbox
group.
So with that we are now able to use it in our template.
But before we do that, remember that when we instantiate this twice, we're going to need to provide
each instantiation with three different prop values.
We'll come back to header in just a second.
Let's first talk about unique values.
So unique values, again, is going to be the iterable that we're going to iterate over in our V4 directive
and in both of our previous implementations, the two original components, those Iterable collections.
Of course, in this case this was unique organizations you can see that came from the respective composable
function.
So in this component we relied on the use unique organizations composable and in the other component,
the job types component, we relied on the use unique job types composable instead.
So now it's going to be the parent components responsibility to get that data and pass it down to the
checkbox group as the unique values prop.
It's going to need to pass down that set, which means it's going to be jobs or just sidebar that's
going to be responsible now for invoking those two composable functions, getting those reactive objects,
holding the sets and passing them down as the unique values prop for each instantiation of the checkbox
group component.
So in order to invoke those composable functions, we're of course going to need to import them and
also set up a setup method.
So right here, let's import those two composable functions.
So that's going to be use unique job types and use unique organizations.
And that, of course is going to come from the source directory, the store folder and the composable
file.
All right.
Importing them is not enough.
We need to add a set up method.
And in the body of this setup method, we need to invoke them.
So right here I'm going to get my unique job types by invoking V use unique job types function.
And as a reminder, this is going to return back a reactive object from the computed function and that
reactive object is going to store inside it that value of this set of strings.
And that's what I want to provide right here eventually.
And similarly, I'm going to get my unique organization's that's going to come from invoking use unique
organizations.
And by itself, of course, it's great that we're invoking this, but this is not enough.
In order to make it eventually available to the template.
We have to make sure we return these as properties on the returned object.
So right here I'm going to add unique job types and unique organizations.
Okay.
So our hope is that this will take care of the unique values prop.
We also need to worry about the mutation prop because each time we instantiate check box group, we're
going to need to tell it which mutation we want it to run because that mutation prop is what the component
is going to use right here when the select value function runs.
So our intent is for the user to click a checkbox in one checkbox group and have it one one mutation,
and then the user clicks a checkbox in another checkbox group component and it can run a totally different
mutation.
That's how we get that reusability.
So our mutations are going to be the exact same ones we used in our former components.
In this one, it's going to be add selected organizations and the one that we're replacing in job types
is going to be ads like the job types.
So similarly, we're going to import those two constants in this file and then we're going to make them
available from the set of methods so that we can use them in our template.
So right here, I'm going to import.
Ad selected job types.
And add selected organizations and that's going to come from the source directory store constants.
All right.
Now, in this case, we just need these to be available to the template and they're available in this
scope.
So we can simply make them properties on this object right here in the setup method.
And this will work just fine.
We don't need to do anything extra in setup.
So right here I'm going to provide adds like the job types, which is just a string from above and then
add selected organizations.
Save that.
And there we go.
All right.
So we've taken care of unique values and we've taken care of mutation.
We also need to provide each instantiation of checkbox group with a header prop.
But we're going to be able to do that inline in our HTML template.
We're not going to need anything in our set of method.
So this should be good enough.
All right.
So let me scroll up here and I will delete these two eventually.
But let's replace them side by side so we can compare the new code with the old code.
So first step, I'm going to replace job types right here.
So now I want to use my new component, which is called Job Filter, Sidebar, CheckBox Group.
Make sure that you either autocomplete or if you write it out, make sure you include the checkbox or
that the dashes, rather the hyphens in the right location.
All right.
And of course, we need to make this a self-closing component.
There's nothing to render inside it.
All right.
And now we want to provide the three props that we care about.
So, header, unique values, mutation.
For this first checkbox group.
I'm going to provide a header.
And if this is our header for the job types, then the header can be the exact same thing it was in
our job types components.
So for example, in job types, our header was simply the string of job types.
And remember the reason we need the header is because when it flows down into the checkbox group it's
going to be passed down to A and to render that as the accordion header.
So this can be a plain string.
So we do not need to use any kind of v bind syntax we can simply as job types that string is going to
flow down as a problem to here and then will flow down an additional level into accordion and all of
that should work.
All right.
So that takes care of the header prop.
It's going to be a plain string.
Then we need to provide our unique values prop.
And of course, for this first one, which is going to be our first checkbox group, this is for job
types.
So we can provide the set we have in unique job types.
So I'm going to provide that complete reactive object as a prop value right here.
Save that.
All right.
And we can see right here, remember that we want to make this a dynamic reference to the reactive computer
computed object.
And then we also want to use the colon to make that V bind.
All right.
Because we don't want to provide a string of unique job types.
We want to provide the name that refers to our reactive object right here that's available that has
the set inside it.
So we're going to pass that down.
And this set is what's going to flow down into this component as unique values.
And then that set, that dynamic collection of iterative values, is what it's going to iterate over
using the V for directive.
All right.
So the beautiful part about this design is for every instantiation of the checkbox group component,
we can provide a totally different collection of unique values for this thing to iterate over and create
checkboxes for.
Now, the only thing that S Lynch doesn't like here is that it prefers that we use hyphenated prop names
instead of a camel case.
So either either approach will work.
But I'm just going to change this to unique values so it satisfies.
Excellent.
Whenever you have a camel case prop like we do here, it's totally fine to either provide camel case
or the kabob case, the the dash case, the you use them as identical as we've seen throughout the course.
Same thing, by the way, with the instantiation of the component name.
This works, but so this camel case.
All right so we've taken care of header and we've taken care of unique values.
The other thing we need to provide is mutation.
So right here, I'm going to provide my mutation.
All right.
And remember, if I simply do this, it's going to be a string, and that's not what I want.
I want to reference a constant below that is available right here, which is my ADD selected job types
constant.
So yes, technically the constant is the exact same as the string value, right?
Because this constant is just a name for a string that has the exact same content.
So technically we could get away with this, but that would defeat the entire value of importing it
and making it available below.
We want to use this specific constant.
So to reference that piece of dynamic named content, we want to use V bind here.
All right, so there we go.
This should take care of our very first checkbox group and this should replace the former functionality
that we had with our job types component.
So let's remove that.
And now we need to create another checkbox group to replace our former organizations component right
here.
So same idea.
I'm going to use another job filter sidebar checkbox group make itself closing.
We need the same three props header can be a plain string.
This is what we're going to pass down to the accordion.
And I'm guessing that this one is organization.
So let me provide that right here.
Organizations.
And just to double check, we can go into our old component that we're replacing, scroll up.
And yes, indeed, the value that we want to pass down to the accordion is just these string organizations.
So this will work just great.
And then we need to provide the unique values for this component to iterate over in the v4.
So once again, colon unique values to bind.
Except this time we don't want unique job types, we want the unique organizations.
Again, the only reason we're able to use these names in the template is because we return them in the
object below.
That's very critical that we all return them here so that we are able to use them.
Okay, so for the second stage creation, we have the header, we have the unique values, we also need
the mutation.
So right here I'm going to use the bind to dynamically provide a value to the mutation prop and that
is going to be our ADD selected organization's constant that we also made available down below.
Save that.
And with that we can remove this thing.
All right.
And with that, of course, we're going to get a new series of complaints because Iceland is telling
us, hey, you're no longer using your former job types and organizations components anywhere in your
template.
And it's absolutely right.
So we can go ahead and delete this, delete this, delete the corresponding imports for those two components,
save that.
And with that, I'm going to transition to my browser and we can see if everything still works.
Let's do that right now.
And there we go.
It is.
Refresh the page quickly.
And all right, so we have our jobs in the right hand side, and here we have our new components allegedly.
So let's double check our view dev tools.
I'm going to go into view.
I'm going to make sure that I'm in components.
Let me just refresh, because I know this thing can be a little flaky sometimes.
All right.
So in my job results view, if I go into the job filter sidebar, take a look.
We have a checkbox do component now and then another one right below it.
If I click into this, we're going to see the props it's receiving and take a look what it's getting.
It's getting a header of job types.
That's a plain string.
That's the easiest thing to understand.
But the mutation is coming from the imported constant in the top component.
And similarly here, it's getting the set of the four values that it's going to use as the unique values
prop to iterate over and of course to make four checkboxes for right here.
But the beautiful part is for a second checkbox script component.
Because of the reusability, we can simply give it a different set for the unique values prop in this
case the set of six unique organizations which going to get from the composable function which is talking
to view x, lots of different levels and layers here.
And lo and behold, we have the exact same principle, six different checkboxes that are going to render
simply from the component, repeating the same logic and applying the same tailwind styles, etc. And
the final thing that makes it all come together, of course, is the mutation, because whenever we
select a value here, we need to make sure that we commit the right mutation so that we overwrite the
right part of the book store, which of course triggers a state update, triggers the getter to be run
that updates the jobs on the right hand side.
So let's take a look in this first component.
When I check part time.
Well, notice the jobs on the right updated.
You'll notice here that in our selected values local data array, this is the generic name we used here.
That component is storing its local state of having that array of part time.
This is not going to affect the other checkbox group because it's a totally separate, independent component.
But we're using the generic name Selected Values, which applies.
And given that everything is updating, we can be confident that we're sending the right mutation to
view X.
In fact, I can confirm by taking a look at this and you can see right here are selected job types array
has been updated with part time and the fact that that state has correctly updated means we're running
the right mutation and properly invoking it, even though we're doing it in a kind of generic manner,
because the mutation that we want to run, we're actually passing into our checkbox group from the parent
component of job filter sidebar.
The exact same rules apply for the second one.
So let me just check something like YouTube.
The fact that we do something like the you and me, we can see the jobs and the right update.
If I look inside that component, we can see it's local selected values state its own local data that
we got using the ref function this time that's being updated.
And because the mutation is add selected organizations that's the mutation work committing whenever
we click on a box here.
So once again, we're going to commit that same mutation right here.
That mutation name is passed in from job filter sidebar that mutation runs and thus we update the view
store and there we go.
We have selected organizations that is going to now be an array of two strings mirroring the exact structure
we have here.
So it looks like everything is working perfectly and now we have a beautiful, more generic, reusable
checkbox for the component that works very well with all it's supposed to do.
So we finally got to the point where we were able to consolidate these former two components which were
very, very similar, but just had a different couple of small differences, right?
The header name right here, the actual set of values that we wanted to iterate over and which view
X mutation to run.
Those were the three elements that differed.
And in order to account for that dynamic difference, we simply made that props and that allowed us
to create a more general reusable component.
And by having the parent the jobs of their sidebar provide those different pieces of information, we
were able to make a much more effective, reusable component.
And now we don't need to write to test three.
We can simply write one.
And then later on, if you want to add another checkbox group that similarly is going to talk to The
View Store and similarly is going to run a different mutation.
We can basically reuse this and it's now all built out of the box.
All right.
So no more need for duplication.
I'm really happy with this because this was a long time coming.
I remember when we started building out these components, we kind of built them intentionally as duplicates
just so we can kind of, you know, build them out and get a chance to see the duplication, feel the
pain.
And I'm really glad that now we were able to come up with a solution that moves the code based in a
in a better, stronger direction.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover it in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.